[WIP] MNT: Add CI infrastructure diagram to CONTRIBUTING.md (#916)
NVIDIA/cuda-python: CONTRIBUTING.md

Reviewer: Create a table of contents at the end of the "Contributing to CUDA Python" section.

Move the new "CI infrastructure overview" section to the end of this document (after DCO).

2. You want to implement a feature, improvement, or bug fix:
    - Please refer to each component's guideline:
       - [`cuda.core`](https://nvidia.github.io/cuda-python/cuda-core/latest/contribute.html)

>        - [`cuda.bindings`](https://nvidia.github.io/cuda-python/cuda-bindings/latest/contribute.html)¹

Reviewer: the footnote hyperlink does not work

### CI Pipeline Flow

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                                   TRIGGER EVENTS                                   │
│  • Push to main branch              • Pull request                                 │
│  • Push to pull-request/* branches  • Manual workflow dispatch                    │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                                             │
                                             ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                                    BUILD STAGE                                     │
│                                                                                     │
│  ┌─────────────────┐  ┌─────────────────┐  ┌─────────────────┐                     │
│  │   linux-64      │  │ linux-aarch64   │  │     win-64      │                     │
│  │  Self-hosted    │  │  Self-hosted    │  │ GitHub-hosted   │                     │

> │  │ linux-amd64-cpu8│  │ linux-arm64-cpu8│  │  windows-2022   │                     │

Reviewer: We don't need specific runner names (as they could be changed any time), but we do want to know if it's self- or GH- hosted. Remove the names.

│  • Python versions: 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13                                  │
│  • CUDA version: 13.0.0 (build-time)                                              │
│  • Components: cuda-core, cuda-bindings, cuda-pathfinder, cuda-python             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                                             │
                                             ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                               ARTIFACT STORAGE                                     │
│                                                                                     │
│  ┌──────────────────────────┐              ┌──────────────────────────┐            │
│  │     GitHub Artifacts     │              │      GitHub Cache        │            │
│  │   • Wheel files (.whl)   │              │ • Build dependencies     │            │
│  │   • Test artifacts       │              │ • Compiled binaries      │            │
│  │   • Documentation        │              │ • Python environments    │            │

> │  │   (30-day retention)     │              │ • Package caches         │            │

Reviewer: The text on GH Cache is inaccurate. We only cache what we called "mini CTK". The rest (i.e. the proxy cache, I assume which was what confused you) is out of our control and it is ok to leave it out.

│  └──────────────────────────┘              └──────────────────────────┘            │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                                             │
                                             ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                                    TEST STAGE                                      │
│                                                                                     │
│  ┌─────────────────┐  ┌─────────────────┐  ┌─────────────────┐                     │
│  │   linux-64      │  │ linux-aarch64   │  │     win-64      │                     │
│  │  Self-hosted    │  │  Self-hosted    │  │ GitHub-hosted   │                     │
│  │   GPU runners   │  │   GPU runners   │  │   GPU runners   │                     │

> │  │   (L4/A100)     │  │     (A100)      │  │                 │                     │

Reviewer: ditt, GPU models (or the fact that all test runners have GPUs) do not matter, remove them

2. You want to implement a feature, improvement, or bug fix:
    - Please refer to each component's guideline:
       - [`cuda.core`](https://nvidia.github.io/cuda-python/cuda-core/latest/contribute.html)
       - [`cuda.bindings`](https://nvidia.github.io/cuda-python/cuda-bindings/latest/contribute.html)<sup>[1](#footnote1)</sup>
       - [`cuda.pathfinder`](https://nvidia.github.io/cuda-python/cuda-pathfinder/latest/contribute.html)

## CI infrastructure overview

The CUDA Python project uses a comprehensive CI pipeline that builds, tests, and releases multiple components across different platforms. This section provides a visual overview of our CI infrastructure to help contributors understand the build and release process.

### CI Pipeline Flow

![CUDA Python CI Pipeline Flow](ci/ci-pipeline.svg)

### Branch-specific Artifact Flow

#### Main Branch

> - **Build** → **Test** → **Documentation** → **Potential Release**

Reviewer 2: I always thought the Test and Documentation steps are triggered simultaneously, like this:
```
          ↗     **Test**      ↘
**Build**                       **Potential Release**
          ↘ **Documentation** ↗ 
```

Is that correct?

## CI infrastructure overview

The CUDA Python project uses a comprehensive CI pipeline that builds, tests, and releases multiple components across different platforms. This section provides a visual overview of our CI infrastructure to help contributors understand the build and release process.

### CI Pipeline Flow

![CUDA Python CI Pipeline Flow](ci/ci-pipeline.svg)

### Branch-specific Artifact Flow

#### Main Branch
- **Build** → **Test** → **Documentation** → **Potential Release**
- Artifacts stored as `{component}-python{version}-{platform}-{sha}`
- Full test coverage across all platforms and CUDA versions
- **Artifact flow out**: `cuda-pathfinder` artifacts → backport branches

#### Backport Branches  
- **Build** → **Test** → **Backport PR Creation**
- Artifacts used for validation before creating backport pull requests
- Maintains compatibility with older CUDA versions
- **Artifact flow in**: `cuda-pathfinder` artifacts ← main branch
- **Artifact flow out**: older `cuda-bindings` artifacts → main branch

#### Pull Request Branches (`pull-request/*`)
- **Build** → **Test** → **Status Check**
- Artifacts used for CI validation only

> - Prevents untrusted code execution through signed commits requirement

Reviewer: This is an implementation detail (of nv-gha-runners) that I don't want to explain. Remove.

Reviewer: @copilot I meant you should just remove the entire section on `pull-request/*`, because it is not of average users' concern, and the naming convention might change if nv-gha-runners decides to do so.

    maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
    this project or the open source license(s) involved.
```

## CI infrastructure overview

The CUDA Python project uses a comprehensive CI pipeline that builds, tests, and releases multiple components across different platforms. This section provides a visual overview of our CI infrastructure to help contributors understand the build and release process.

### CI Pipeline Flow

![CUDA Python CI Pipeline Flow](ci/ci-pipeline.svg)

Alternative Mermaid diagram representation:

> ```mermaid

Reviewer: Please make sure we include from the file, instead of duplicating code here.

Reviewer: @copilot let's revert this and make the opposite move: Instead of having another copy of `.md`/`.mmd` for the Mermaid diagram, just inline it in CONTRIBUTING.md like what you did in the first shot. It seems GitHub has trouble rendering imported Mermaid diagrams.

- Artifacts stored as `{component}-python{version}-{platform}-{sha}`
- Full test coverage across all platforms and CUDA versions
- **Artifact flow out**: `cuda-pathfinder` artifacts → backport branches

#### Backport Branches
- **Build** → **Test** → **Backport PR Creation**
- Artifacts used for validation before creating backport pull requests
- Maintains compatibility with older CUDA versions
- **Artifact flow in**: `cuda-pathfinder` artifacts ← main branch
- **Artifact flow out**: older `cuda-bindings` artifacts → main branch

### Key Infrastructure Details

- **Self-hosted runners**: Used for Linux builds and GPU testing (more resources, faster builds)
- **GitHub-hosted runners**: Used for Windows builds and general tasks
- **Artifact retention**: 30 days for GitHub Artifacts (wheels, docs, tests)
- **Cache retention**: GitHub Cache for build dependencies and environments
- **Security**: All commits must be signed, untrusted code blocked
- **Parallel execution**: Matrix builds across Python versions and platforms
- **Component isolation**: Each component (core, bindings, pathfinder, python) can be built/released independently

---

> <a id="footnote1">1</a>: `cuda.bindings` follows the contributing guidelines from this repository (`cuda-python`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a id="footnote1">1</a>: The `cuda-python` meta package shares the same license and the contributing guidelines as those of `cuda-bindings`.
```

    maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
    this project or the open source license(s) involved.
```

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
    this project or the open source license(s) involved.
```

---

> <a id="footnote1">1</a>: `cuda.bindings` follows the contributing guidelines from this repository (`cuda-python`).

Reviewer: This is a footnote, it must be placed at the bottom.
